Ruby Agent 9.0.0 Release (#11408)
newrelic/docs-website: src/content/docs/apm/agents/ruby-agent/getting-started/migration-9x-guide.mdx

---

> title: Ruby agent 8.x to 7.x migration guide

Reviewer: Do you mean to say 8.x to 9.x?

Reviewer 2: Addressed with [82bbbd7](https://github.com/newrelic/docs-website/pull/11408/commits/82bbbd7d2e13e1b79bddaa39afbb0e0a9eaeeb72), thanks!

  | `disable_redis_instrumentation`           | `instrumentation.redis`                   | `instrumentation.redis: disabled`                                                   |
  | `disable_resque`                          | `instrumentation.resque`                  | `instrumentation.resque: disabled`                                                  |
  | `disable_sinatra`                         | `instrumentation.sinatra`                 | `instrumentation.sinatra: disabled`                                                 |
  | `disable_rake`                            | `instrumentation.rake`                    | `instrumentation.rake: disabled`                                                    |
  | `disable_rake_instrumentation`            | `instrumentation.rake`                    | `instrumentation.rake: disabled`                                                    |
  | `disable_typhoeus`                        | `instrumentation.typhoeus`                | `instrumentation.typhoeus: disabled`                                                |

## Removed Support for Ruby 2.2 and 2.3 [#ruby_2223]

>   Ruby 2.2 and 2.3 are no longer supported by the ruby agent. In order to continue using the latest Ruby Agent version, please update to Ruby 2.4.0 or above.

Reviewer: Should Ruby Agent always be upper case R and A? I see a mix.

Reviewer 2: @hannahramadan our current standard is to always capitalize "Ruby" and always keep "agent" lower case.

## Enabled Thread Tracing by Default [#thread_tracing]

  The configuration option `instrumentation.thread.tracing` is now enabled by default. This will allow the agent to properly monitor code that occurs inside of threads. Work being done inside of threads that previously was not being recorded will now be recorded and associated with the transaction the thread was created in.
  If you are currently using custom instrumentation to start a new transaction inside of threads, this may be a breaking change, as it will no longer start a new transaction if one already exists.

> 

Reviewer: Tanna, some rewording.  Please verify if it still conveys the change. 
 The configuration option `instrumentation.thread.tracing` is now enabled by default. This configuration allows the agent to properly monitor code that occurs inside of threads. In Ruby Agent 9.0, work being done inside of threads will be recorded and associated with the transaction that the thread was created.
  If you are currently using custom instrumentation to start a new transaction inside of threads, this may be a breaking change, as it will no longer start a new transaction if one already exists.

Reviewer 3: Wording updated

## Removed Deprecated Instrumentation [#removed_gem_instrumentation]

  Support for the following gems has been dropped. Metrics and events will no longer be created for these gems.

>     - Acts As Solr

Reviewer: Instead of saying support for the following gems has been dropped.
-- Reuse the verbiage from the previous migration guide ----
The following gems had been previously deprecated and are now removed.

Reviewer 3: [Complete](https://github.com/newrelic/docs-website/pull/11408/commits/49d803baca6c63737258b4919314ece1808fe8dd#r1109075863)

    - Authlogic
    - DataMapper
    - Rainbows
    - Sunspot

## Updated API method `set_transaction_name` [#set_transaction_name]

  When the method `NewRelic::Agent.set_transaction_name` is called, it will now always change the name and category of the currently running transaction to what is passed in to the method. This is a change from how it functioned in previous agent versions. Previously, if `set_transaction_name` was called with a new transaction name and a new category that did not match the category that was already assigned to a transaction, neither the new name nor category would be saved to the transaction. 
  If this method is being called in a situation in which it was previously ignored due to cateogry differences, this will now change the name and category of that transaction. 

## Removed API methods [#removed_api_methods]

  The following deprecated API methods have been removed.

>   - `NewRelic::Agent.disable_transaction_tracing` - Use `NewRelic::Agent.disable_all_tracing` instead

Reviewer: Is it just one method or more methods are being removed but not listed yet?

Reviewer 3: [Changed](https://github.com/newrelic/docs-website/pull/11408/commits/49d803baca6c63737258b4919314ece1808fe8dd) to singular "method"!

---
title: Ruby agent 8.x to 7.x migration guide
tags:
  - Agents
  - Ruby agent
  - Getting started
redirects:
  - /docs/agents/ruby-agent/getting-started/migration-9x-guide
---

## Summary [#summary]

This guide covers the major changes between the 8.x and 9.x series of the Ruby agent, issues that may be encountered while upgrading, and how to successfully migrate to version 9.x.

The main changes include:

* [Removed all deprecated configuration options](#removed_config)
* [Dropped support for Ruby 2.2 and 2.3](#ruby_2223)

> * [Enabled Thread tracing](#thread_tracing)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* [Enabled Thread tracing by default](#thread_tracing)
```

* [Removed deprecated instrumntation for gems](#removed_gem_instrumentation)
* [Updated API method `set_transaction_name`](#set_transaction_name)

> * [Removed deprecated API methods](#removed_api_methods)

Reviewer 3: @kaylareopelle we organized this based on what we thought could potentially have the most impact on customers. I agree removing deprecated content is unsurprising, but also that it could have a more breaking impact. Thoughts?

> * [Removed deprecated API methods](#removed_api_methods)

Reviewer 4: My apologies! I should have asked if it was already prioritized. Seeing this was previously considered, please disregard my comment.

> * [Removed deprecated API methods](#removed_api_methods)

Reviewer 4: I'm not sure why I can't mark this as resolved, but it should be :)

See the [milestone for 9.0](https://github.com/newrelic/newrelic-ruby-agent/milestone/28?closed=1) for more information.

## Removed Deprecated Configuration [#removed_config]

  The following configuration options have been removed and will no longer work. Please update all configs to use the replacements listed below. Please see our [configuration documentation](/docs/apm/agents/ruby-agent/configuration/ruby-agent-configuration) for additional details.

>   |  Removed                                  | Replacement                               | `newrelic.yml` example                                                              |

Reviewer 4: Out of curiosity, does the `newrelic.yml` example have any pattern to the content? (ex. all default values, all values that disable the instrumentation)

Reviewer 3: @kaylareopelle, @tannalynn might know this better at the top of her head, but I can't discern a common pattern.

  | `disable_redis_instrumentation`           | `instrumentation.redis`                   | `instrumentation.redis: disabled`                                                   |
  | `disable_resque`                          | `instrumentation.resque`                  | `instrumentation.resque: disabled`                                                  |
  | `disable_sinatra`                         | `instrumentation.sinatra`                 | `instrumentation.sinatra: disabled`                                                 |
  | `disable_rake`                            | `instrumentation.rake`                    | `instrumentation.rake: disabled`                                                    |
  | `disable_rake_instrumentation`            | `instrumentation.rake`                    | `instrumentation.rake: disabled`                                                    |
  | `disable_typhoeus`                        | `instrumentation.typhoeus`                | `instrumentation.typhoeus: disabled`                                                |

## Removed Support for Ruby 2.2 and 2.3 [#ruby_2223]

>   Ruby 2.2 and 2.3 are no longer supported by the Ruby agent. In order to continue using the latest Ruby Agent version, please update to Ruby 2.4.0 or above.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  Ruby 2.2 and 2.3 are no longer supported by the Ruby agent. To continue using the latest Ruby Agent version, please update to Ruby 2.4.0 or above.
```

> 

Reviewer 2: I think it would be helpful to accompany our announcement of dropping support for Ruby 2.2 and 2.3 with a reminder that we are still supporting Ruby versions that are much older than what the Ruby team officially supports.

Perhaps something like:

> Note that New Relic continues to provide support for certain older Ruby versions even after they have fallen out of the officially supported maintenance window provided by the Ruby language development team. For example, as of March 2023 the oldest Ruby version supported by the Ruby team will be version 3.0, whereas with version 9.0 of the New Relic agent, Ruby versions 2.4 and above are still supported. For more information about official Ruby team support of Ruby versions, see [Ruby Maintenance Branches](https://www.ruby-lang.org/en/downloads/branches/).

Reviewer 3: I like this! [Added](https://github.com/newrelic/docs-website/pull/11408/commits/e806ec4b072854c839ba264913a59cd002b41b0a).

## Enabled Thread Tracing by Default [#thread_tracing]

>   The configuration option `instrumentation.thread.tracing` is now enabled by default. This configuration allows the agent to properly monitor code that occurs inside of threads. In Ruby Agent 9.0, work being done inside of threads will be recorded and associated with the transaction that the thread was created.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  The configuration option `instrumentation.thread.tracing` is now enabled by default. This configuration allows the agent to properly monitor code occurring inside threads. In Ruby agent 9.0, instrumented code within threads will be recorded and associated with the current transaction when the thread was created.
```

I feel like the last sentence is a bit confusing. Here's my attempt at clarifying things, but I think it may need more work.

> If you are currently using custom instrumentation to start a new transaction inside of threads, this may be a breaking change, as it will no longer start a new transaction if one already exists.

Reviewer 4: I wonder if this should be more broad? Cautioning anyone who added custom instrumentation around threads?

Reviewer 3: Made this a little more broad. [Commit](https://github.com/newrelic/docs-website/pull/11408/commits/2c4087e1421031b80b69376915c6638e8067b3c5)

## Removed Deprecated Instrumentation [#removed_gem_instrumentation]

>   The following gems had been previously deprecated and are now removed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  Instrumentation for the following gems had been previously deprecated and has now been removed.
```

  * Acts As Solr
  * Authlogic
  * DataMapper
  * Rainbows
  * Sunspot

## Updated API method `set_transaction_name` [#set_transaction_name]

>   When the method `NewRelic::Agent.set_transaction_name` is called, it will now always change the name and category of the currently running transaction to what is passed in to the method. This is a change from how it functioned in previous agent versions. Previously, if `set_transaction_name` was called with a new transaction name and a new category that did not match the category that was already assigned to a transaction, neither the new name nor category would be saved to the transaction. 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
When the method `NewRelic::Agent.set_transaction_name` is called, it will now always change the name and category of the currently running transaction to what is passed into the method. This is a change from previous agent versions. 
  
Previously, if `set_transaction_name` was called with a new transaction name and a new category that did not match the category already assigned to a transaction, neither the new name nor category would be saved to the transaction. 
```

>   If this method is being called in a situation in which it was previously ignored due to cateogry differences, this will now change the name and category of that transaction. 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  If this method is being called in a situation in which it was previously ignored due to category differences, this will now change the name and category of the transaction. 
```

## Removed API method [#removed_api_methods]

>   The following deprecated API method has been removed.
>   - `NewRelic::Agent.disable_transaction_tracing` - Use `NewRelic::Agent.disable_all_tracing` instead

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  The deprecated API method `NewRelic::Agent.disable_transaction_tracing` has been removed. Use `NewRelic::Agent.disable_all_tracing` instead
```

Since there's only one item on the list, I think sentences might be more beneficial than bullet points.

## Removed Deprecated Instrumentation [#removed_gem_instrumentation]

  Instrumentation for the following gems had been previously deprecated and has now been removed.

  * Acts As Solr
  * Authlogic
  * DataMapper
  * Rainbows
  * Sunspot

## Updated API method `set_transaction_name` [#set_transaction_name]

When the method `NewRelic::Agent.set_transaction_name` is called, it will now always change the name and category of the currently running transaction to what is passed into the method. This is a change from previous agent versions. 
  
Previously, if `set_transaction_name` was called with a new transaction name and a new category that did not match the category already assigned to a transaction, neither the new name nor category would be saved to the transaction. 
  If this method is being called in a situation in which it was previously ignored due to category differences, this will now change the name and category of the transaction. 

## Removed API method [#removed_api_methods]

>   The deprecated API method `NewRelic::Agent.disable_transaction_tracing` has been removed. Use `NewRelic::Agent.disable_all_tracing` instead

Reviewer 4: The deprecated APIs document references another option, `NewRelic::Agent#ignore_transaction`. Should we list it here too? Is there a reason why someone would want to choose one over the other?

https://github.com/newrelic/docs-website/pull/11408/files#diff-2ce68aa7ce10a595941ab70590bb59697004e62f66c5ac08f22c0af3d6fa2c45R27

Reviewer 3: Nice call out! [Fixed](https://github.com/newrelic/docs-website/pull/11408/commits/0d5f1094361206ade2e96bcc5b0728e03abe8e4e).

---

> title: Ruby agent 8.x to 7.x migration guide

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
title: Ruby agent 8.x to 9.x migration guide
```
